>> Scott Moss: So was everybody able
to see their docs rendered on the page,
all right?
It's actually really confusing
because they decided to call
graphiql with an i,
very similar to GraphQL.
Literally, the only difference
between it is the i after the h.
That's the only difference.
So I'm sorry, it can be confusing.
But they couldn't resist the pun on
the word graphiql like you had to do
it, right?
What else are you gonna call it?
So it's really good.
Let's just walk through what that would
look like just in case anyone didn't get
to it, and did not look at the branch.
So if you were to go to the index file
of the API, you would see that we're
exporting out that graphiql router
that was already created for you.
And then inside the server.js,
you would import that graphQLRouter,
and then you would mount it at /graphql.
Not graphiql, no i here, graphql.
And you would just place that router
exactly the same you would do the rest
router.
And then the other directions
were to mount the graphiql,
with an i, on the path of docs, right?
At the last minute, I showed you
that there was a graphiqlExpress
package from
the apollo-server-express module.
And then if you did some digging,
you would find out that you needed to
supply it with an endpointURL pointing to
the relative path of your GraphQL API.
The way this works is this graphiqlExpress
when invoked returns a router.
It returns an express router so
you have to invoke it first of all.
If you don't invoke this,
if you just pass it in like this.
It'll just hang, you won't get anything.
So we did that, and it didn't do anything.
That's because, by default,
you have to actually invoke it, for
it to return the router that you want.
And then it takes in an option,
this option makes sense.
Because what graphiql does is,
it actually returns a React App.
If you go look at the source code,
is this a React App?
Which your docs is just a React App, it
returns that, and then that app needs to
know what is your GraphQL API that I need
to hit to actually do the documentation?
So that's what the endpoint is, and
it could be relative because it's from
the same server, so it'd be relative.
It does this thing called introspection.
Introspection is a query,
it's basically like query that
you can send to your GraphQL API
that will convince your
GraphQL API to return
everything associated with it.
Every single thing associated
with your GraphQL API.
All the types, the names, queries,
the mutations, every single thing.
One query hits your GraphQL API and
it gives you everything.
And graphiql takes advantage of that and
builds an app around it.
That's how you get all the completed.
That's how you see all your docs.
It does one query and
I can show you what that will look like.
So let's save this, start this up.
>> Scott Moss: And
then if we go to mydocs here.
>> Scott Moss: What you should
get back is, you would see this.
This is GraphiQL, with an i.
And it's just a React App.
And then if you did it successfully,
and this would render and
if you didn't give it, if you just invoke
the graphiqlExpress app, this will render.
If you didn't give endpointURL,
this will still render.
You just won't have any docs over here,
this looks to be blank.
So this is a confirmation that is
pointing to the correct graphql,
we can verify that by clicking Query.
And we see that one query that we do have
which is in the user graphql file which
is getMe.
That's the only query
that we have right now.
So you'll see that.
So that's a verification.
Now, the whole introspection thing,
if you open up the network tab,
click on Network,
you refresh this, and
then if we go look at graphql XHR.
Is it this one?
>> Scott Moss: Here we go, so if we go
look at a graphql call here you can see
this query being called, Introspection.
We can just go look at
this query right quick.
It's a pretty big query.
Actually, this one's not that big
cuz our stuff is pretty small.
But you an think of it as like
a recursive query that hits our graphql.
And it returns back every single thing
associated with our GraphQL API which
right now is like almost nothing.
We only have like three types and
one query so it's like nothing.
This introspection can be used for
a lot of things.
There is tools out there that will
use this introspection query.
And have you ever used like one of those
GUI's where you can build database tables
and set up relations?
One of those table builders,
schema builder,
it'll generate that based off this.
Which was really cool.
So you can see the relations of how your
graph interacts with each other,
it's really cool.
I mean we can actually attempt to find it,
let me see, control inspection, graphql.
>> Scott Moss: Okay,
I don't know the name.
Was it?
>> Scott Moss: Okay,
that's totally not it.
Well, there's a tool that
will do introspection and
like do some really cool stuff.
Maybe I'll find it later, but
it will put it together for you so
you can see how your stuff
relates to each other.
So using the introspection you
can build some pretty good tools.
There's some other great
alternatives to GraphiQL out there.
I know GraphiQL has a really
good one that they have,
they call it the GraphQL Playground, which
is like a better version of GraphiQL's.
You can build a lot of stuff
from this IntrospectionQuery.
I mean, you get to imagine the types
of interactive documentations, or
visualizations you can build to explore
your API using this query that returns
pretty much every single thing
that you need about your API.
So you can see your return
says JSON right here.
That is all the information about every
single thing that you can do in your API.
And then,
you can use this information to build an
application that allows you to explore it.
Pretty cool.
>> Scott Moss: Any questions about this?
>> Scott Moss: Now,
if you took it a step further and
you actually tried to query getMe.
Who tried to do that?
Right, it broke, right?
Do you know why it broke?
>> Scott Moss: Cuz it's there,
we didn't talk about resolvers but
if you wanted to look at the resolver
file that functions there.
And it is actually returning something,
so why did it break?
>> Scott Moss: This is so meta,
like if you get it it's awesome, but
you do have the information to know why it
did break, because we built it yesterday.
But basically,
let's see if anybody can figure it out.
So if I do getMe, and I say give
me the id of me, and the username,
before I run this,
notice I did not pass in an id here.
The getMe doesn't take an id.
So how does it know who me is?
Right, JSON Web Token.
We have JSON Web Token, right?
But I didn't pass in
a JSON Web Token anywhere.
That's the problem.
I also didn't set up JSON Web Token
decoding anywhere inside
the GraphQL that we mounted.
This resolver if you were to look at it is
expecting the user to already be there.
And if you did some more digging,
you would see that in a graphql router
it's expecting the user to be on
the request object which is put there
by the middleware for
JSON Web Token which you did not add here.
So therefore rec.user is
undefined inside this
is are words that I did
not teach you about.
This is undefined, this user is undefined.
And because user from getMe cannot be
null, it breaks because that's null.
So that's why you get that error,
cannot return null for
non-nullable field, Query.getMe.
Just makes you send, whatever getMe
returned was null, and it can't be null.
>> Speaker 2: Larger font.
>> Scott Moss: A larger font, okay,
that's what that needs, all right?
[LAUGH], okay, all right, I know what
that, I thought you wanted me to clap.
I was like, I'll clap, okay?
>> Scott Moss: There we go.
So, yeah, it's a very hard
thing to follow, very meta, but
that's what that means right there.
It's like that's a non null error,
you're supposed to put no there.
Just to show you that,
we can satisfy it right quick.
If I go into resolver, and
return a fake user right quick.
A user has what, an id,
username, it has all this, so
I'm just gonna return a fake one.
And you'll see that it
will totally be fine.
So id is whatever, username is hello.
CreatedAt is sure, yes.
So, I'll save that.
And now if I go back and
I rerun this query.
Let me refresh it actually.
>> Scott Moss: I guess I need commas,
[LAUGH]
>> Scott Moss: There we go.
Now if I refresh this, and
run that I get back the user, right?
So that's how that works.
And just to play with this
a little more if we were to
look at the user,
the id has to be non-null.
There has to be a id there, right?
So let's say, I took away the id.
We expect to see an error, right?
Because I'm running this and it's like,
cannot return non-nullable field User.id.
But if I don't ask for the id, and
I'm not returning an id it's totally fine.
I didn't ask for it, so
it didn't even try to get it.
Does that make sense?
It's only gonna validate,
it's only gonna try to retrieve
something that you ask for.
It doesn't try to retrieve everything.
If I didn't ask for an id,
it doesn't try to get an id.
Therefore, it didn't know it wasn't null.
But as soon as I ask for the id, it tried
to get the id, and then it was like, wait,
that's actually null, it's not there,
because I got rid of it back here.
The other magical thing that's happening
right now that we did not talk about is
that and we're gonna get to this in
reslovers, which is coming up next.
But I'm just gonna talk about it now,
because I have the context is when you
return an object from your resolvers,
and the properties match up
with the types in your graphql.
See for instance,
we have a property called id,
we have a property called username,
createdAt, updatedAt in my resolver,
they have the same property names,
graphql just takes it from there.
If you don't have property
names that line up,
you need to write another
resolver to resolve that field.
By default,
it'll take the object that you gave it and
just match the property names one by one,
like here's an id, here's an id.
Username, username, cool.
But let's say, user also takes in
a othername, which is a string.
But I don't have the other name here,
all right?
And then the client ask for other name.
How do we tell graphql
to resolve other name?
You write a resolver for that, and
that's where about to get into.
So that's a nested resolver,
property level resolver.
So basically, that's what I was saying,
your graphiql types start off the same as
your Mongoose schemas, but then they
branch off to stuff completely different.
They can do whatever they want.
But they usually start off that way.
But I can put GitHub here, and
have a function that goes to GitHub, and
fetches a GitHub thing.
It will do whatever I want, and
only for that one property, and
only when you ask for it.
If you don't ask for it, it doesn't do it.
It doesn't make the call.
When you ask for it, it'll do it.
>> Scott Moss: Okay,